tldr: Use for free in commercial an non-commercial projects, but link back to icons8, and don't resell/redistribute the icons themselves.

----------------------------------------

https://icons8.com/license

USE FOR FREE, BUT LINK TO ICONS8

WEBSITES: Add a link to icons8.com on all pages using our content. If that's most pages, a link in your footer is fine.
DESKTOP APPS: macOS and Windows applications should have the link to https://icons8.com in the about section.
MOBILE APPS: For smartphone apps, please add a link to https://icons8.com in the about section or settings. Also, please credit our work in your App Store or Google Play description (something like "Icons by Icons8" is fine).
OPEN SOURCE: Established open-source projects could receive the icons for free. For you, we'll open-source the needed resources. By established projects, we mean the Wikipedia criteria. If you have a page on Wikipedia, and it's not removed within a week, you're qualified.

----------------------------------------

https://intercom.help/icons8-7fb7577e8170/en/articles/5534926-universal-multimedia-licensing-agreement-for-icons8

Image License
a. Icons8 and its' subsidiaries grant the User or Licensee a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-transferable right to use; modify; or reproduce images; icons; photographs; and illustrations subject to restrictions or limitations as provided within this Licensing Agreement.

Free and paid account holders may provide the third parties with the final product containing the Licensed Materials, if the third party agrees to the same terms and conditions (this document) as the Licensee. It is the Licensee’s responsibility to include a copy of the terms and conditions (this document) when providing third parties with the final product. Licensees are obligated to make third parties aware of the rules for crediting and distributing Licensed Materials stated in previous paragraphs.

There is no restriction on personal or commercial use of any kind providing:

I. Free Account Holders
Free Account Holders must not make derivative copies of any icons or music accessed, used, or downloaded from our website; however, Free Account Holders may use Icons8 Desktop Tools (Photo Creator, Ouch Creator, Icon Effects, OMGIMG, Pichon, Lunacy) to modify or change illustrations or photographs.

Free Account Holders must provide two hyperlinks to Licensed Materials used or embedded in a website or social media site as generated by the Icons8 website (or subsidiary site). One link shall be to the Icons8 website, and a secondary link to the location of the downloaded work, icon, photograph, illustration, or music. To maintain Free Account Holder status usage must comply with terms of this Agreement.

II.Paid Users/Licensees

All paid Users and Licensees may make changes to photographs using our Photo Creator: https://photos.icons8.com/creator, including but not limited to derivative copies.

All paid Users and Licensees may make changes to or derivative copies of all Licensed Material found on the Icons8 website or subsidiary website including but not limited to: icons; illustrations; photographs; and music.

A User or Licensee may not resell or distribute Licensed Materials as stand-alone files (Example: Separate icon files in SVG format) without the express written consent of Icons8.

A User or Licensee is prohibited from exporting, distributing, or otherwise sharing our Licensed Content and Materials as stand-alone files (separating, reverse engineering, or making derivative copies of our Licensed Materials).

b. Images and Licensed Materials may be used in any manner without restriction as to the number of copies, or personal or commercial usage provided such usage complies with provisions within this Agreement.

c. The Licensee acknowledges that Icons8 retains all rights, title, and interest in copyrighted illustrations, icons, photographs, music, or other media created by Icons8 staff; employees; or agents. Independent artists that create icons; photographs; music; or other Licensed Material for sale or distribution on the Icons8 website retain full rights of ownership and interest in their original works as provided herein.
