Ziel -=- Adventure Game
NOTE: COMPILE to make it run at peek performance!!!(Can also download the
executable from the ziel web page!)
Sorry for the poor documentation, I guess I never really was a writer.
For source with full comments look here to get it and more!
THE Ziel page   http://members.tripod.com/~ziel/ziel.htm

Controls -
In Game:
 Arrow keys - move Ziel
 I - About
 S - Toggles sounds
 Space or Alt - thrusts(Sword), also to read signs and talk to people
    NOTE: You first have to get the sword before you can use it!
 Esc - Back to menu

Run setup.bas if you the game is running too slow

  Ziel is a game that is a mix between an RPG and an Arcade style type game.
You control the adventurer Ziel and help him complete his quest. Ziel was
designed so that other users can make their own adventure games with Ziel
without knowing how to program by using the map maker and other tools which
will be at the user's disposal. Also to furthur the flexability of Ziel, the
source is included so you can add anything that your heart desires. 

  Your quest in this demo is to first off, find a sword. Then save the maiden.
Talking to different people should aid you in your journey.

  A lot of the comment on the source has been removed from this version so
Qbasic users can run it. There should be full version with a lot more comments
on how the source runs. I might also put up more documentation on my page on
how the source code works and other things like more tools etc.

  This is just a demo. There should be future updates(like graphic fonts
and some others for Quick Basic users) found on my page. If you are using
Qbasic, then you will not be able to read signs or talk to people because
of the lack of memory Qbasic gives you compaired to Quick Basic. Also all
future updates will not run in Qbasic. Infact, if you are a Qbasic user,
I doubt that anything more can be fit into the program. 

Tools:
  So far the only tool I have is a map maker, but you can get that from my
web page. There is also a Gif to Bsave converter for graphics is up
on my page too. Any tools that I make or that are submitted(that are useful)
will be put up on my webpage for users to help them mold Ziel better.

Bugs:
The the scrolling palette is black on some video cards instead of changing
  colors.(Used in waterfall and fireplace). Newer cards should not do this.
When you move the mouse it does wierd things.
   (Doesn't do this in Win95 because it takes control of mouse)
Sometimes when you kill a guy and recieve an object, it flies back.
Sometimes when you hit a guy at the same time he hits you, there will
   be an inprint of the guy on the screen(becoming part of the background
Sometimes when you get hit, you might fly off screen and can't move on the
   next screen until you get hit.
For enemies that move diagnal(that don't go through walls) colision is messed
   and can get stuck in walls
I am sure there are others, if so please report them
On some computers, the keyboard routines still beep when you hold down a
   key, best bet is to get a joystick emulator and use your joystick with it.
Sometimes when you get hit by a guy, you fly to another screen and get stuck.
Developer
  -Jay Cook (jaycook1@juno.com)
http://members.tripod.com/~ziel/ziel.htm

Other credits:
Angelo Mottola -=- sound fx and sound routines, from SoundLab Version 1.0
Eric Carr -=- System timer sync, from Spinball 2.5 beta

