2001-10-17  Added support for different cursors
            Changed all structures definitions to struc instead of EQUs, now
             that NASM supports them for RDOFFs
            Added definitions and pseudocode for AtrList item
        18  Finished code for AtrList (needed for Spc2Midi)
        19  Included main bg code in object source since it was used so much
        23  Started code for Scroll bar (or rather Scroll Handle), finishing
             the redrawing and key response.
            Added definition for processes
        25  Mostly finished all scroll handle code. Still need to add timed
             scrolling, and fix small imprecision in the click calculations.
            Added interconnection between scroll handle and attribute list
             so they communicate both ways.
        26  Fixed imprecision by reversing two values before division
            Added hack timed scrolling until I think about the process/timer
             definition some more.
        27  Changed all container functions to use pointers to identify or
             manipulate item instead of word indexes. The indexes are still
             used, but invisibly to items, not passed around.
            Simplified container message sending to one routine, instead of
             one for simple messages and another for passing the index along
             with (thanks to changing everything to pointers).
        28  Fixed key focus setting to detect when no item was active and
             jump to nearest item, or group if necessary.
2001-11-08  Fixed scroll handle behaviour when paging up/down to not jump.
            Slowed page scroll by half.
2001-12-26  Waste initial mouse motion count so that mouse doesn't start at
            odd positions on the screen.
2002-01-14  Add tab strip and attribute bar.
        16  Fixed all alignments in text prompt.
        18  Wrote keyboard handler to replace limited BIOS and it's
            inability to keep track which keys are currently pressed.
            Rewrote keyboard messages and all objects to use virtual key
            codes instead (based on Windows constants).
            Rewrote ScanForKey to scan for either single key codes or multi
            key combinations (limited only by the keyboard hardware itself).
            Theoretically it could react to 50 key combos, but (1) that would
            be stupid and (2) the keyboard couldn't handle it.
        20  Text prompt hides mouse cursor when typing or scrolling.
        21  Cascading menu draws itself, text & pictures, higlighted, normal,
             disabled.
            Last change to small font set.
        23  Menu choice movement via keys finished. Still must code mouse.
        29  Menu formatting and resizing complete.
        31  Change menu redrawing to only redraw changes choices, instead of
            the entire expanded list of choices. Incorrect choice address
            calculation fixed for a few key cursor movements, resulting in
            the wrong choice being redrawn.
2002-02-01  Selected menu choice follows the mouse cursor. Must optimize it
            to not recurse through the entire path each mouse move.
            Alphanumeric keys activate menu choices.
        08  Added opening/closing of menu branches. Added sibling
            notification. Now several menus can share the same submenus and
            all will be properly notified of changes. If a branch is opened
            in one menu, any other sibling menus instantly show the change.
        09  Changed menu choices to null terminated strings. Improved jump
            table macros to include negative messages.
2002-03-??  Convert all sections for PE format, for porting to Windows 95.
            Redraw large font set, 2x old set.
2002-05-08  Changed timer item to be compatible with Windows's milliseconds.
            Scroll bar handle can now be smaller than the minimum.
            Get RedHat Linux 7.2, so I might be able to make Linux ports too.
        15  Start drawing accented characters for upper ANSI range (for Koro).
        27  Finish complete character set.
        28  Discard caption and border from Windows version. Instead, I'm using my own.
2002-06-21  Fundamental change: separate item focus and key focus
            Now use BIOS/DOS keyboard handler to translate keystrokes instead
            of doing it internally (in case of odd keyboard layouts)
2002-06-24  Now foreign keystroke translation for DOS works, for non-American
            codepages. Koro will be happy.
        30  The GUI really is ready enough now, so I finally can use it in my
            utilities.
2002-07-05  Revised GUI clipset routines. Added main bg title bar. Grabbing
            the window now moves it. Added minimize button.
        15  Changed cursor drawing routines, so they will work in Windows now,
            but stupid Windows gives no message indicating the mouse has
            moved outside the window, even when the mouse is captured!? That
            means the custom cursor is left over the window even when real
            cursor is out. Cursor images are now 32x32.
            Tabbing within frames now continues to the first item of the next
            frame, and last item of previous frame.
        16  Improved/rewrote Window's version mouse translation routines. Now
            mouse in/out is almost always captured, cursor is confined, and
            my beautiful custom cursors are drawn correctly.
            Fixed bug: Menu would not reset key focus if shown twice in a row
            without being hidden first.
        17  Fixed strange palette bug that only occurred when minimizing it
            without first activating it.
        18  Been redrawing the cursor whenever the mouse moved, even if the
            cursor (relatively) didn't move. Now it only redraws when the
            cursor actually moves or changes. Fixed tab strip not counting
            right hovered tab. Changed scroll handle behaviour so instead of
            a double single button click, pressing both buttons simultaneously
            instantly jumps there. Many people single click a few times when
            near the destination which could be mistaken for a double click.
        19  Context menu added to text prompt, copy/insert/delete. First time
            to use the Window's clipboard.
        24  Separated set/get functions and messages into two.
2002-09-02  No longer redraws mouse on click outside window immediately after
            losing capture.
        12  DOS keyboard handler ignores fake shift keypresses sent by
            keyboard. It was ruining shift+extended key combinations.
2003-05-03 -Changed graphics buffer to 15bit instead of the age old 8bit.
            It breaks DOS compatibility (without either adding VESA support
            or intelligent colormapping) but allows much more freedom in GUI
            color selection and finer effects in the visualizations. My
            icons can also look far nicer.
           -Changed color constants to RGB values rather than indexes. Changed
            rectangle, line drawers, and border drawer to use 16bit. Changed
            font blitter to use a single color that is blended with the
            surrounding color on font edges, finally true antialiasing.
            Changed clipping routines only minorly for two byte pixels.
        05 -Added DrawShade function for shadows behind windows. Can finally
            implement thanks to 16bit, without needing a CLUT.
           -Converted all DrawImage... functions to 16bit, along with all
            object colormaps.
           -Converted all cursor functions and cursor image data to 16bit.
           -Revised BMP2PX16 to promote old 8bit up to raw 16bit pixels.
