           
                ULTMKJ.TXT --- The Comprehensive Help Guide to

                       The Ultimate MKJ Player v2.0
                        
                             ...and also...

                            The MKJ Sound FAQ

             Information last updated on : June 14th, 1997
       The Ultimate MKJ Player last updated on : June 14th, 1997

 
   This document will provide answers to some commonly asked questions, or
    at least probable questions.  For basic help, read the Help...Contents
    section of the Ultimate MKJamz Player v2.1.  Don't email us and ask
     a question that appears on here.  Repeat.  Don't email us and ask
    a question that appears on here.  Now that that has been said, someone
         will inevitably ask us a question that appeared on here.
 
  Also, I have been thinking of writing a FM Sound Blaster text tutorial, or
    possibly some kind of program which acts as an enhaced tutorial.  I've
  learned a lot about the SB while creating the MKJ format, and I think I
  can help some people out with some things that gave me a lot of trouble,
    including how all of the registers work and methods of using them in
  FM synthesizd music.  If you think I should, email me at blood225@aol.com.
  

 I.  General Questions

   Q.)  What is MKJamz?
   A.)  MKJamz (please forgive the stupid name) is a file format designed
        for QBasic programmers who want MIDI-like music in their programs.
        The earliest version of MKJamz was completed sometime around August
        of 1996.

   Q.)  Where can I get MKJ songs?
   A.)  Right now, the best (and only to our knowledge) place to download
        MKJ songs is our FTP or WWW sites.  They are both listed under the
        Help...Support section.  The best MKJ files yet are going to be
        released with Pieces 2, and believe me, they blow away the current
        ones!

   Q.)  What can MKJamz do for ME?
   A.)  It can play nice music for you to listen to.  Also, you can easily
        play MKJs WITHIN YOUR VERY OWN PROGRAM!  Just copy all of those
        routines that are available in the MKJamz programmers kit, and plug
        'em into your program.  You'll be playing nice little songs in no
        time, at the same quality as professional (hah!) players like the 
        Ultimate MKJ Player.  You can even put them into your games.  However,
        we aren't saying this is a cure-all multimedia solution for your
        programs.  All the code is in QBasic SUB form, so it has it's
        disadvantages.  But, we are using MKJs in some of our future games
        like "Pieces 2" and the already available "Pong Mania v2.0".

   Q.)  How do I make my own MKJ songs?
   A.)  Visit our FTP or WWW sites and download the MKJAMZ.ZIP file, located
        in the graphics and sound kit.  It contains a large amount of source
        code and is highly commented.  Knowledge of the PLAY syntax helps.

   Q.)  It's too hard to make MKJ songs.  When is a decent composer going to
        be made?
   A.)  We are working on one similar to the note layout in the Ultimate MKJ
        player, but for now the MKJamz kit will have to do.  If you don't
        like it, then put each note frequency directly into the buffer your-
        self.
   
   Q.)  I want to play MIDIs.  Can you send me MIDI code or give me any
        general MIDI info?
   A.)  No, we can't.  Go to that x2ftp site and download the documents on
        MIDIs.  Don't ask us for the x2ftp site URL.  It's probably
        x2ftp.oulu.fi .  Just don't email us and ask about MIDIs, if
        we get MIDI code it will be in the /examples/ directory of our
        FTP site.
 
   Q.)  I think MKJs suck.  Where can I channel my ignorance?
   A.)  We don't care, as long as it isn't to us.

   Q.)  How do I play WAVs?
   A.)  There is WAV code on our FTP site.

   Q.)  What's up with no true percussive instruments in MKJamz?
   A.)  Percussive instruments have been added a long time ago.

 II.  Ultimate MKJamz Player v2.1 Questions

   Q.)  What's up with the source code?  It doesn't work!
   A.)  Yep, it only works when you compile.  Such has been the case
        for many of our larger-scale programs. (Fury, etc)  That's why
        we distribute them as EXEs; the common user will have little use
        for the source code, and we don't want to split how people view
        our work.  (We don't want people to just try the BAS file, have it
        crash, then delete everything.)
   
   Q.)  What's the difference between v1.1 and v2.0?  They look the same to
        me.
   A.)  The major change is the new File...Open interface, which is light
        years beyond the old one.  You now get a Windows-like dialogue box
        which makes finding MKJ files 100 times easier.  It also has keyboard
        support.  We would like to thank Mark K Kim (MarkKKim@aol.com) for 
        lending us his various routines to detect the directories, files, 
        etc.  The other difference, which is explained more in depth
        later on, is that the songs load *fast*.  

   Q.)  Are those the only changes?
   A.)  Nope!  Due to popular demand, percussive instruments have now been 
        added to MKJamz.  All MKJamz with a version of 1.11 or higher support
        percussive instruments.  For a short little example of these, play
        the POSSUM.MKJ file that came with the Ultimate MKJ Player v2.1.

   Q.)  What's the difference between v2.0 and v2.1?  They look the same to
        me.
   A.)  The only major change has been that a host of useful instrument
        functions have been added.  You can now :  save instruments from
        songs to disk as a separate file, load and replace instruments
        to get new sounds, and save the song files with those new
        instruments.  For you programmers out there, you may recognize those
        features from the MKJamz programming kit.  
        
        To actually do all those functions through the Ultimate MKJ Player, 
        you must use the VU meter display, and load a song.  When you click 
        on the red bars, which represent the channels, a small menu will
        pop up that has several options, most of which are self-explanatory.

        The first option, "Change", allows you to load an instrument file
        (*.INS, they come with the MKJamz kit, or you can rip them with
        the player.) and use it for the specified channel.  That's good 
        for replacing instruments that sucks.  The second option, "Save",
        saves the instrument to disk.  It's not well documented; the only
        thing shown is the current directory and a prompt.  The prompt
        is where you type the file name in.

        The third real option is a hybrid of the first two.  At the bottom
        of the menu is an option that says "Save all changes" with a box.
        If that is set to "Yes", all FUTURE instrument changes will be
        written directly into the .MKJ song file.  Be careful with this,
        because unless you back-up the instruments, ala "Save", you may
        do some unreparable damage to the .MKJ file.
   
        Another change is with some retarded muting and solo bugs.  No longer
        will channels mysteriously be muted, nor can you mute a solo-ed
        channel.  

   Q.)  I can't get it to work, and the problem is related to my sound card.
        (or lack thereof)
   A.)  Well, past versions were very limited in terms of sound card i/o 
        configurations supported, but version 1.1 will scan through the
        most probable base ports and check if your card is there.  If it
        finds it, it displays a short message telling you your baseport.
        The range is from 210h to 280h; it checks 210h, then 220h, then
        230h, etc.  Personally, we've never seen a card other than 220h.
   
   Q.)  Are there any features that I am not aware of?
   A.)  You might not have noticed the command line feature.  It takes a
        file name from the command line optionally.  Therefore, you could
        type 
        
        c:\> ultmkj  c:\windows\heart.mkj
        
        and it would load up and start playing c:\windows\heart.mkj.  This
        may not seem useful, but it is.  You see, you can associate all MKJ
        files with ULTMKJ.EXE and then, throughout windows, if you double
        click on any MKJ file it will automatically start playing through
        ULTMKJ.EXE.
   
   Q.)  What's up with the new, faster MKJ loader?
   A.)  Well, we remembered that QBasic likes to change the data that 
        our crude far-pointers point to, and that is what we think was
        causing all of the trouble.  Yes, that's right, we managed to
        shift the blame nicely off of ourselves and onto someone else.
        If you recall, all previous versions of the Ultimate MKJamz Player
        took forever to load a song, and we had a super-fast routine that
        for some reason crashed our computers all the time.  Well, we rolled
        up our sleeves and in about 2 minutes we fixed everything. (maybe)

   Q.)  Sometimes the music gets screwed up.  Why?
   A.)  This can happen for any number of reasons, but, if you are on
        at least a 486dx33, which most of you probably are, the one
        time the music gets really off track is when you keep pulling
        down all of the menus.  It takes a bit of time to draw up the
        menus, that's why it screws up the music.  Also, when we say
        486dx33, that's just because it's the worst computer than we
        got a chance to test this on.

   Q.)  What good is the DOS Shell?
   A.)  Well, with the new File...Open module, not much.  But, you never know
        when a nice DOS shell will come in handy...for example, you could see
        how many times you can run The Ultimate MKJamz Player from within
        itself!  You can run other Sound Blaster programs and see how screwed
        up you can get the Ultimate MKJ Player to sound!  The excitement never
        ends!  Can you play Doom from the Ultimate MKJ player?  Try and see!

   Q.)  How do I Mute or Solo a channel?
   A.)  To mute a channel, click on the box with the red circle above the
        channel you want to mute.  It will then turn green, signifying that
        the channel is muted.  To un-mute it, just click it again.  To solo
        a channel, do the same thing but click on a box besides Solo and not
        Mute.  Soloing is basically muting every channel except one, and that
        is reflected by having each channel muted except the channel you
        selected to solo.  To un-solo, and, in effect, un-mute everything,
        click the solo-ed channel again.

   Q.)  How come when I try to make the song go faster, it instead turns into
        crap?
   A.)  Because that feature does not work 100% of the time.  If you don't
        it, don't use it.  The slow-down feature probably has the same
        problem.  It's funny because it works well it our other player.
        In version 2.0 it seems to work a little better.
  
   Q.)  I really screwed up the song by making it go really fast and muting
        half the channels.  How do I reset a song?
   A.)  Click on the "Stop" icon at the bottom of the screen.

   Q.)  What are those dumb smiling faces for?
   A.)  Those 2 smiling faces represent the volume.  The guy is "happy" if
        the volume is cranked all the way up.  To change the volume, click 
        and drag on the little bar in-between them.  As a special treat,  
        you even get to watch their faces change as you change the volume.
        Please, try to contain your elation.

   Q.)  I think this player sucks.  Please tell me there is another player.
   A.)  You're in luck.  There are currently 3 other signifigant players
        that we are aware of.  They are : 
        
        Projammer V1.1 By Turbo Systems Software
        http://members.aol.com/roadbustr/homepage/tss.htm
        email : tssoft1@aol.com

        The Offical MKJ Player v2.0 By M \ K Productions
        http://members.aol.com/mkwebsite/index.html
        email : blood225@aol.com

        Slam Jamz by Aura Software
        WWW site undetermined
        email : asoftds@aol.com

        We encourage you to download all of those players, and, in general, 
        get more involved with the whole MKJamz family.

